README.md, before:

# PDF Files

You'll need to host a directory of the source pdf files on your server's filesystem.

Note that pdf files much match the file naming specified in `./api/src/shared/pdf_library.ts`

# API

- Navigate to ./api
- Run: `yarn install`
- Run: `yarn build; yarn start`
- Add a .env file to the root directory, specifying the pdf file folder. (See `.env.example`)

API runs on port 4002 by default, this can be changed in `./api/env/production.env`

Make note of the address of the API instance, this is the API_URL (ex http://<ip_address>:4002)

It should work?!

# WWW Frontend

- Navigate to ./www
- Set up a .env file with the proper API url from above. See `.env.example`
- Run: `yarn install`
- Run: `yarn start`

I think it will work?!?!

## React router deep links / refresh

If deploying to Amazon EC2 on an Apache/httpd server, there's some extra steps to make the deep links and page refresh work. (assumes you've deployed to /var/www/html)

- Under /var/www/html, add an .htaccess file containing the following:

```
Options -MultiViews
RewriteEngine On
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
RewriteRule ^ index.html [QSA,L]
```

- Edit httpd.conf: `sudo nano /etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf`
- Under `<Directory "/var/www/html">`, replace: `AllowOverride None` with: `AllowOverride All`
- Restart httpd: `sudo systemctl restart httpd`

For Debian, with apache2 the steps were:

Edit: 

```
/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf
```

Under <VirtualHost ...>, add:
  
```
<Directory "/var/www/html">
    RewriteEngine on
    # Don't rewrite files or directories
    RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -f [OR]
    RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -d
    RewriteRule ^ - [L]
    # Rewrite everything else to index.html to allow html5 state links
    RewriteRule ^ index.html [L]
</Directory>
```

`sudo a2enmod rewrite`
`sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart`

Commit message:

Optimize pdf loading with 500mb cache. Include pdf optimization script

README.md, after:

# PDF Files

You'll need to host a directory of the source pdf files on your server's filesystem.

Note that pdf files much match the file naming specified in `./api/src/shared/pdf_library.ts`

# API

- Navigate to ./api
- Run: `yarn install`
- Run: `yarn build; yarn start`
- Add a .env file to the root directory, specifying the pdf file folder. (See `.env.example`)

API runs on port 4002 by default, this can be changed in `./api/env/production.env`

Make note of the address of the API instance, this is the API_URL (ex http://<ip_address>:4002)

It should work?!

# WWW Frontend

- Navigate to ./www
- Set up a .env file with the proper API url from above. See `.env.example`
- Run: `yarn install`
- Run: `yarn start`

I think it will work?!?!

## React router deep links / refresh

If deploying to Amazon EC2 on an Apache/httpd server, there's some extra steps to make the deep links and page refresh work. (assumes you've deployed to /var/www/html)

- Under /var/www/html, add an .htaccess file containing the following:

```
Options -MultiViews
RewriteEngine On
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
RewriteRule ^ index.html [QSA,L]
```

- Edit httpd.conf: `sudo nano /etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf`
- Under `<Directory "/var/www/html">`, replace: `AllowOverride None` with: `AllowOverride All`
- Restart httpd: `sudo systemctl restart httpd`

For Debian, with apache2 the steps were:

Edit:

```
/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf
```

Under <VirtualHost ...>, add:

```
<Directory "/var/www/html">
    RewriteEngine on
    # Don't rewrite files or directories
    RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -f [OR]
    RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -d
    RewriteRule ^ - [L]
    # Rewrite everything else to index.html to allow html5 state links
    RewriteRule ^ index.html [L]
</Directory>
```

`sudo a2enmod rewrite`
`sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart`

## Troubleshooting

For slow-loading pdfs, you may want to try the `optimize_pdfs.sh` script in the scripts folder to re-encode them. Or ad-hoc using ghostscript:

```
gs -sDEVICE=pdfwrite -dPDFSETTINGS=/ebook -dNOPAUSE -dQUIET -dBATCH -sOutputFile=test_optimized.pdf your_slow_pdf.pdf
```
